Here’s what to expect in the week ahead:TECHNOLOGYIn a bid to take back some of the education market from Google, Apple on Tuesday plans to introduce new hardware and software for schools and students. But Apple has fallen to third place, behind Google and Microsoft, in the battle to own America’s classroom. So the new items may not move the needle much. Natasha SingerFINANCEA delegation of Saudi officials including the country’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, is in New York this week to schmooze with United States chief executives. The centerpiece of their visit is the Saudi-U.S. C.E.O. Forum, a daylong gathering on Tuesday with speakers like Andrew Liveris, the forum’s co-chairman and the chief executive of the Dow Chemical Company. JPMorgan’s leader, Jamie Dimon, is popping in, along with other financial chief executives. At the end of the week, the Saudis are expected to go to Seattle, where the agenda includes a meeting with a Microsoft founder, Bill Gates, and a stop at a Boeing plant. Emily FlitterAUTO INDUSTRYThe 2018 New York auto show opens to the media on Wednesday and to the public on Friday, and while electric cars have been in the spotlight lately, it is roomier sport-utility vehicles that will dominate the stage at the Javits Center. Ford’s Lincoln brand will roll out a redesigned version of the Navigator, a seven-passenger behemoth, while General Motors will counter with a new smaller S.U.V. to be called the XT4. On the sidelines of the show itself, Waymo, the self-driving car division of the Google parent company Alphabet, will come to New York to lay out its vision for driverless cars. Neal E. BoudetteECONOMYMillions of Americans got a bump in their paychecks last month thanks to the newly passed Republican tax plan. Data released by the Commerce Department on Thursday should reveal whether they’re spending the extra cash or saving it. Last month’s report showed that Americans’ after-tax incomes jumped in January because of the tax plan, but those gains were mostly theoretical — companies didn’t actually begin withholding less money from employees’ paychecks until February. As a result, consumer spending slumped in January. The report on Thursday should show another increase in incomes, but the outlook for spending is less certain, despite the tax changes: An earlier report found that retail sales fell in February. Economists will also be watching this week’s data for signs of an increase in inflation, which could prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates faster than it currently plans. Ben CasselmanFINANCIALAmerican, British and Australian markets will close in observance of Good Friday, but some Asian exchanges will remain open. It is not a federal holiday in the United States, so American government offices and services will operate as usual. Passover also begins on Friday at sundown. Zach WichterHere’s what to expect in the week ahead:TECHNOLOGYIn a bid to take back some of the education market from Google, Apple on Tuesday plans to introduce new hardware and software for schools and students. But Apple has fallen to third place, behind Google and Microsoft, in the battle to own America’s classroom. So the new items may not move the needle much. Natasha SingerFINANCEA delegation of Saudi officials including the country’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, is in New York this week to schmooze with United States chief executives. The centerpiece of their visit is the Saudi-U.S. C.E.O. Forum, a daylong gathering on Tuesday with speakers like Andrew Liveris, the forum’s co-chairman and the chief executive of the Dow Chemical Company. JPMorgan’s leader, Jamie Dimon, is popping in, along with other financial chief executives. At the end of the week, the Saudis are expected to go to Seattle, where the agenda includes a meeting with a Microsoft founder, Bill Gates, and a stop at a Boeing plant. Emily FlitterAUTO INDUSTRYThe 2018 New York auto show opens to the media on Wednesday and to the public on Friday, and while electric cars have been in the spotlight lately, it is roomier sport-utility vehicles that will dominate the stage at the Javits Center. Ford’s Lincoln brand will roll out a redesigned version of the Navigator, a seven-passenger behemoth, while General Motors will counter with a new smaller S.U.V. to be called the XT4. On the sidelines of the show itself, Waymo, the self-driving car division of the Google parent company Alphabet, will come to New York to lay out its vision for driverless cars. Neal E. BoudetteECONOMYMillions of Americans got a bump in their paychecks last month thanks to the newly passed Republican tax plan. Data released by the Commerce Department on Thursday should reveal whether they’re spending the extra cash or saving it. Last month’s report showed that Americans’ after-tax incomes jumped in January because of the tax plan, but those gains were mostly theoretical — companies didn’t actually begin withholding less money from employees’ paychecks until February. As a result, consumer spending slumped in January. The report on Thursday should show another increase in incomes, but the outlook for spending is less certain, despite the tax changes: An earlier report found that retail sales fell in February. Economists will also be watching this week’s data for signs of an increase in inflation, which could prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates faster than it currently plans. Ben CasselmanFINANCIALAmerican, British and Australian markets will close in observance of Good Friday, but some Asian exchanges will remain open. It is not a federal holiday in the United States, so American government offices and services will operate as usual. Passover also begins on Friday at sundown. Zach WichterHere’s what to expect in the week ahead:TECHNOLOGYIn a bid to take back some of the education market from Google, Apple on Tuesday plans to introduce new hardware and software for schools and students. But Apple has fallen to third place, behind Google and Microsoft, in the battle to own America’s classroom. So the new items may not move the needle much. Natasha SingerFINANCEA delegation of Saudi officials including the country’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, is in New York this week to schmooze with United States chief executives. The centerpiece of their visit is the Saudi-U.S. C.E.O. Forum, a daylong gathering on Tuesday with speakers like Andrew Liveris, the forum’s co-chairman and the chief executive of the Dow Chemical Company. JPMorgan’s leader, Jamie Dimon, is popping in, along with other financial chief executives. At the end of the week, the Saudis are expected to go to Seattle, where the agenda includes a meeting with a Microsoft founder, Bill Gates, and a stop at a Boeing plant. Emily FlitterAUTO INDUSTRYThe 2018 New York auto show opens to the media on Wednesday and to the public on Friday, and while electric cars have been in the spotlight lately, it is roomier sport-utility vehicles that will dominate the stage at the Javits Center. Ford’s Lincoln brand will roll out a redesigned version of the Navigator, a seven-passenger behemoth, while General Motors will counter with a new smaller S.U.V. to be called the XT4. On the sidelines of the show itself, Waymo, the self-driving car division of the Google parent company Alphabet, will come to New York to lay out its vision for driverless cars. Neal E. BoudetteECONOMYMillions of Americans got a bump in their paychecks last month thanks to the newly passed Republican tax plan. Data released by the Commerce Department on Thursday should reveal whether they’re spending the extra cash or saving it. Last month’s report showed that Americans’ after-tax incomes jumped in January because of the tax plan, but those gains were mostly theoretical — companies didn’t actually begin withholding less money from employees’ paychecks until February. As a result, consumer spending slumped in January. The report on Thursday should show another increase in incomes, but the outlook for spending is less certain, despite the tax changes: An earlier report found that retail sales fell in February. Economists will also be watching this week’s data for signs of an increase in inflation, which could prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates faster than it currently plans. Ben CasselmanFINANCIALAmerican, British and Australian markets will close in observance of Good Friday, but some Asian exchanges will remain open. It is not a federal holiday in the United States, so American government offices and services will operate as usual. Passover also begins on Friday at sundown. Zach WichterHere’s what to expect in the week ahead:TECHNOLOGYIn a bid to take back some of the education market from Google, Apple on Tuesday plans to introduce new hardware and software for schools and students. But Apple has fallen to third place, behind Google and Microsoft, in the battle to own America’s classroom. So the new items may not move the needle much. Natasha SingerFINANCEA delegation of Saudi officials including the country’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, is in New York this week to schmooze with United States chief executives. The centerpiece of their visit is the Saudi-U.S. C.E.O. Forum, a daylong gathering on Tuesday with speakers like Andrew Liveris, the forum’s co-chairman and the chief executive of the Dow Chemical Company. JPMorgan’s leader, Jamie Dimon, is popping in, along with other financial chief executives. At the end of the week, the Saudis are expected to go to Seattle, where the agenda includes a meeting with a Microsoft founder, Bill Gates, and a stop at a Boeing plant. Emily FlitterAUTO INDUSTRYThe 2018 New York auto show opens to the media on Wednesday and to the public on Friday, and while electric cars have been in the spotlight lately, it is roomier sport-utility vehicles that will dominate the stage at the Javits Center. Ford’s Lincoln brand will roll out a redesigned version of the Navigator, a seven-passenger behemoth, while General Motors will counter with a new smaller S.U.V. to be called the XT4. On the sidelines of the show itself, Waymo, the self-driving car division of the Google parent company Alphabet, will come to New York to lay out its vision for driverless cars. Neal E. BoudetteECONOMYMillions of Americans got a bump in their paychecks last month thanks to the newly passed Republican tax plan. Data released by the Commerce Department on Thursday should reveal whether they’re spending the extra cash or saving it. Last month’s report showed that Americans’ after-tax incomes jumped in January because of the tax plan, but those gains were mostly theoretical — companies didn’t actually begin withholding less money from employees’ paychecks until February. As a result, consumer spending slumped in January. The report on Thursday should show another increase in incomes, but the outlook for spending is less certain, despite the tax changes: An earlier report found that retail sales fell in February. Economists will also be watching this week’s data for signs of an increase in inflation, which could prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates faster than it currently plans. Ben CasselmanFINANCIALAmerican, British and Australian markets will close in observance of Good Friday, but some Asian exchanges will remain open. It is not a federal holiday in the United States, so American government offices and services will operate as usual. Passover also begins on Friday at sundown. Zach Wichter