In your opinion, what is — or should be — the purpose of prison? In other words, how does incarcerating people serve society? What should prisons do for convicted criminals?In “Turn Prisons Into Colleges,” Elizabeth Hinton writes:Students: Read the entire article, then tell us:— Based on Ms. Hinton’s article, what do you think she believes is the purpose of prison? What does she think prison should do for society? For incarcerated people?— Do you think prisons should provide incarcerated people with access to education programs? Why or why not? How would this serve individuals and society?— If you do think prisons should give education opportunities, how extensive do you think these should be? Should they offer college and high school courses? Degree programs? Books for inmates to educate themselves? Or, as Ms. Hinton suggests, should prisons actually look like college campuses — with classes taught by university professors, a student government, extracurricular activities and a library?— Some lawmakers have opposed offering education programs in prisons, arguing that they waste taxpayer money on educating criminals, give convicts a competitive edge over law-abiding citizens in the job market, threaten prison security by encouraging protests and escape, defeat the purpose of serving a sentence and even make “smarter criminals.” What do you think of this reasoning? Does it change your mind or reinforce your opinion on educating incarcerated people? Why or why not?— Ms. Hinton writes that “education is a civil right that improves society and increases civic engagement.” To what extent do you agree with this statement and why?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.In your opinion, what is — or should be — the purpose of prison? In other words, how does incarcerating people serve society? What should prisons do for convicted criminals?In “Turn Prisons Into Colleges,” Elizabeth Hinton writes:Students: Read the entire article, then tell us:— Based on Ms. Hinton’s article, what do you think she believes is the purpose of prison? What does she think prison should do for society? For incarcerated people?— Do you think prisons should provide incarcerated people with access to education programs? Why or why not? How would this serve individuals and society?— If you do think prisons should give education opportunities, how extensive do you think these should be? Should they offer college and high school courses? Degree programs? Books for inmates to educate themselves? Or, as Ms. Hinton suggests, should prisons actually look like college campuses — with classes taught by university professors, a student government, extracurricular activities and a library?— Some lawmakers have opposed offering education programs in prisons, arguing that they waste taxpayer money on educating criminals, give convicts a competitive edge over law-abiding citizens in the job market, threaten prison security by encouraging protests and escape, defeat the purpose of serving a sentence and even make “smarter criminals.” What do you think of this reasoning? Does it change your mind or reinforce your opinion on educating incarcerated people? Why or why not?— Ms. Hinton writes that “education is a civil right that improves society and increases civic engagement.” To what extent do you agree with this statement and why?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.In your opinion, what is — or should be — the purpose of prison? In other words, how does incarcerating people serve society? What should prisons do for convicted criminals?In “Turn Prisons Into Colleges,” Elizabeth Hinton writes:Students: Read the entire article, then tell us:— Based on Ms. Hinton’s article, what do you think she believes is the purpose of prison? What does she think prison should do for society? For incarcerated people?— Do you think prisons should provide incarcerated people with access to education programs? Why or why not? How would this serve individuals and society?— If you do think prisons should give education opportunities, how extensive do you think these should be? Should they offer college and high school courses? Degree programs? Books for inmates to educate themselves? Or, as Ms. Hinton suggests, should prisons actually look like college campuses — with classes taught by university professors, a student government, extracurricular activities and a library?— Some lawmakers have opposed offering education programs in prisons, arguing that they waste taxpayer money on educating criminals, give convicts a competitive edge over law-abiding citizens in the job market, threaten prison security by encouraging protests and escape, defeat the purpose of serving a sentence and even make “smarter criminals.” What do you think of this reasoning? Does it change your mind or reinforce your opinion on educating incarcerated people? Why or why not?— Ms. Hinton writes that “education is a civil right that improves society and increases civic engagement.” To what extent do you agree with this statement and why?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.In your opinion, what is — or should be — the purpose of prison? In other words, how does incarcerating people serve society? What should prisons do for convicted criminals?In “Turn Prisons Into Colleges,” Elizabeth Hinton writes:Students: Read the entire article, then tell us:— Based on Ms. Hinton’s article, what do you think she believes is the purpose of prison? What does she think prison should do for society? For incarcerated people?— Do you think prisons should provide incarcerated people with access to education programs? Why or why not? How would this serve individuals and society?— If you do think prisons should give education opportunities, how extensive do you think these should be? Should they offer college and high school courses? Degree programs? Books for inmates to educate themselves? Or, as Ms. Hinton suggests, should prisons actually look like college campuses — with classes taught by university professors, a student government, extracurricular activities and a library?— Some lawmakers have opposed offering education programs in prisons, arguing that they waste taxpayer money on educating criminals, give convicts a competitive edge over law-abiding citizens in the job market, threaten prison security by encouraging protests and escape, defeat the purpose of serving a sentence and even make “smarter criminals.” What do you think of this reasoning? Does it change your mind or reinforce your opinion on educating incarcerated people? Why or why not?— Ms. Hinton writes that “education is a civil right that improves society and increases civic engagement.” To what extent do you agree with this statement and why?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.